**Sabermetrics As A Microcosm**  
Sabermetrics is a term used to describe baseball analytics, the cutting-edge of statistical analysis in sports. Sabermetrics were developed first by Bill James in his famous Baseball Abstract, before being popularized in MLB use during the early 2000's "Moneyball" era by Paul DePodesta, Billy Beane, and the Oakland Athletics. Throughout this analytical revolution, the Oakland Athletics were able to win and contend with the biggest payrolls in a sport with no salary cap. The Athletics were infamously poor, losing several stars in free agency to the aforementioned resource-rich teams in the years prior to the sabermetric revolution.Through statistical analysis and following the footsteps of James, DePodesta and Beane were able to develop an algorithmic system that was able to determine the true, mathematical value of a baseball player. The Athletics used this to identify undervalued and overvalued players, overcoming an enormous resource deficit and competing with the biggest organizations in the sport.

This underdog story is not just about the genesis of analytics, it is about something more; it is about the concept of the resource-stricken being able to overcome the resource-advantaged titans that dominate the capitalist hegemony of our world. Sabermetric analysts found a way to do something that is nearly impossible from an economic standpoint through the ingenuity of statistical analysis. Adaptation is the one advantage that the downtrodden have over their resource superiors because they can never possess it at its inception. Sabermetrics are not just the measure by which baseball is analyzed, it is a microcosmic model for revolution that operates in a near-optimal sample. Baseball represents a true free market with high sample rates and isolated outcomes free of the statistical noise of the real world and found in other sports. Baseball transcends its status as a sport, with sabermetrics powering real world economic analysis; this concept has ushered the birth of our modern analytical world, a world that is driven by algorithms and data, shaped by sabermetrics, and defined by economics.

Baseball's status as a statistical microcosm for the global capitalist market allows for sabermetric strategy and analysis to shape, and be shaped by, the real-world economy. This factor is what makes baseball, what makes sabermetrics, what makes economics as a whole, so interesting to me. Baseball's statistical revolution was birthed in the necessity for those without resources to adapt and invent in order to overcome the advantaged. As this revolution continues, we see its inevitable use by big-market teams who can leverage their vast resources to maximize the impact of sabermetrics, resulting in an endless struggle between those without resources needing to create advantages to equalize the playing field and those with resources who seek to buy out these advantages. What unfolds from this is not just sabermetrics, not just economics, but the macrocosmic reality of a world under late-stage capitalism. In this relationship, you can glimpse how the disadvantaged can overcome those in power and the ways by which the world can be made equal, fair, and just. 